CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to @ryantaylor/workos

Thank you for considering contributing to @ryantaylor/workos! This document
outlines the standards and processes we follow for this project.

## Commit Message Convention

This project follows the
[Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) specification for
commit messages. This leads to more readable messages that are easy to follow
when looking through the project history and enables us to generate changelogs
automatically.

### Commit Message Format

Each commit message consists of a **header**, an optional **body**, and an
optional **footer**. The header has a special format that includes a **type**,
an optional **scope**, and a **subject**:

```
<type>(<scope>): <subject>
<BLANK LINE>
<body>
<BLANK LINE>
<footer>
```

#### Type

The commit type must be one of the following:

- **feat**: A new feature
- **fix**: A bug fix
- **docs**: Documentation only changes
- **style**: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space,
  formatting, missing semi-colons, etc)
- **refactor**: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
- **test**: Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests
- **chore**: Changes to the build process or auxiliary tools and libraries such
  as documentation generation
- **perf**: A code change that improves performance
- **ci**: Changes to our CI configuration files and scripts
- **build**: Changes that affect the build system or external dependencies

#### Scope

The scope is optional and should be the name of the module affected (as
perceived by the person reading the changelog).

#### Subject

The subject contains a succinct description of the change:

- Use the imperative, present tense: "change" not "changed" nor "changes"
- Don't capitalize the first letter
- No dot (.) at the end

### Examples

```
feat(auth): add ability to authenticate with API key
```

```
fix(core): resolve issue with request timeout
```

```
docs(README): update installation instructions
```

```
style: apply consistent spacing throughout codebase
```

```
refactor(directory-sync): simplify directory sync implementation
```

```
test(sso): add unit tests for SSO workflow
```

```
chore: update dependencies to latest versions
```

## How to Write Good Commit Messages

1. **Be specific**: Clearly describe what changed and why
2. **Keep it concise**: Aim for 50 characters or less in the subject line
3. **Use the imperative mood**: Write as if you are giving a command
4. **Separate subject from body with a blank line**: If you need to provide more
   context
5. **Explain the why in the body**: The body is where you explain the reasoning
   behind the change
6. **Reference issues**: If the commit addresses an issue, reference it in the
   footer

## Quality Checks

All quality gates are enforced through GitHub Actions:

1. **Lint, Type-Check & Test**: Every push and pull request triggers automatic:
   - Deno linting
   - Type checking
   - Unit & integration tests

2. **Commit Message Format**: All commits are automatically checked against the
   Conventional Commits specification using commitlint.

You no longer need local Git hooks or Husky. Simply `git commit` & `git push`;
the Checks tab in your PR will show the results.

The configuration extends `@commitlint/config-conventional`, which enforces the
Conventional Commits specification described above.

## Pull Request Process

1. Ensure your code maintains 100% test coverage
2. Update documentation if necessary
3. Make sure all GitHub Actions checks pass
4. Submit your pull request with a detailed description of your changes

Commit message:

docs: update documentation to emphasize Deno-first approach

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to @ryantaylor/workos

Thank you for considering contributing to the Deno/JSR port of WorkOS! This document
outlines the standards and processes we follow for this project.

## Deno-First Development

This project is a Deno-first adaptation of the WorkOS SDK. When contributing, please:

1. Prioritize Deno and Fresh compatibility
2. Use Deno-native approaches where possible
3. Maintain TypeScript strictness
4. Test against both Fresh 1.x and 2.x if applicable
5. Document Deno-specific usage patterns

## Commit Message Convention

This project follows the
[Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) specification for
commit messages. This leads to more readable messages that are easy to follow
when looking through the project history and enables us to generate changelogs
automatically.

### Commit Message Format

Each commit message consists of a **header**, an optional **body**, and an
optional **footer**. The header has a special format that includes a **type**,
an optional **scope**, and a **subject**:

```
<type>(<scope>): <subject>
<BLANK LINE>
<body>
<BLANK LINE>
<footer>
```

#### Type

The commit type must be one of the following:

- **feat**: A new feature
- **fix**: A bug fix
- **docs**: Documentation only changes
- **style**: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space,
  formatting, missing semi-colons, etc)
- **refactor**: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
- **test**: Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests
- **chore**: Changes to the build process or auxiliary tools and libraries such
  as documentation generation
- **perf**: A code change that improves performance
- **ci**: Changes to our CI configuration files and scripts
- **build**: Changes that affect the build system or external dependencies

#### Scope

The scope is optional and should be the name of the module affected (as
perceived by the person reading the changelog).

#### Subject

The subject contains a succinct description of the change:

- Use the imperative, present tense: "change" not "changed" nor "changes"
- Don't capitalize the first letter
- No dot (.) at the end

### Examples

```
feat(auth): add ability to authenticate with API key
```

```
fix(core): resolve issue with request timeout
```

```
docs(README): update installation instructions
```

```
style: apply consistent spacing throughout codebase
```

```
refactor(directory-sync): simplify directory sync implementation
```

```
test(sso): add unit tests for SSO workflow
```

```
chore: update dependencies to latest versions
```

## How to Write Good Commit Messages

1. **Be specific**: Clearly describe what changed and why
2. **Keep it concise**: Aim for 50 characters or less in the subject line
3. **Use the imperative mood**: Write as if you are giving a command
4. **Separate subject from body with a blank line**: If you need to provide more
   context
5. **Explain the why in the body**: The body is where you explain the reasoning
   behind the change
6. **Reference issues**: If the commit addresses an issue, reference it in the
   footer

## Quality Checks

All quality gates are enforced through GitHub Actions:

1. **Lint, Type-Check & Test**: Every push and pull request triggers automatic:
   - Deno linting and formatting
   - Type checking with strict TypeScript settings
   - Unit & integration tests for Deno environments

2. **Commit Message Format**: All commits are automatically checked against the
   Conventional Commits specification using commitlint.

You no longer need local Git hooks or Husky. Simply `git commit` & `git push`;
the Checks tab in your PR will show the results.

The configuration extends `@commitlint/config-conventional`, which enforces the
Conventional Commits specification described above.

## Pull Request Process

1. Ensure your code maintains comprehensive test coverage
2. Verify compatibility with Deno and Fresh
3. Update documentation if necessary
4. Make sure all GitHub Actions checks pass
5. Submit your pull request with a detailed description of your changes
