README.md, before:

# @ryantaylor/workos: Deno/JSR Port of the WorkOS API

[![JSR Version](https://jsr.io/badges/@ryantaylor/workos)](https://jsr.io/@ryantaylor/workos)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/ryan-taylor/workos-jsr/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ryan-taylor/workos-jsr/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-80%25-brightgreen)](coverage_html/index.html)

## Overview

This library provides seamless integration with the WorkOS API for applications
written in Deno and JavaScript/TypeScript. This project benefits from the
official WorkOS SDK; sincere appreciation is extended to the WorkOS project team
and all contributors for their efforts.

> **Disclaimer:** This is a community-driven port maintained by a single
> developer and is **not** an official WorkOS product.

The SDK is fully Deno-native, designed to work with Deno 2.x and Fresh 2.x with
enhanced type safety and improved performance. Key features include:

- **Fine-Grained Authorization (FGA)**: A complete implementation of WorkOS's
  authorization system
- **Type-Safe User Management**: Enhanced session handling with proper typing
- **Directory Sync**: Improved serialization and type-safe directory management
- **Pure Deno Implementation**: No compatibility layers, built for Deno from the
  ground up

## Why Deno 2.x + Fresh 2.x?

The goal of this fork is **not** to mirror the existing Node SDK one-for-one,
but rather to show what the WorkOS developer experience can feel like when it is
built **for** the Deno runtime and the Fresh framework from day one.

_🛠️ Ship Faster_

- Zero-config: run `deno task dev` and start coding—no bundlers, transpliers, or
  package managers to configure.
- First-class TypeScript and JSX/TSX support baked into the runtime eliminates
  **"works-on-my-machine"** classpath issues and reduces set-up time.
- Fresh's islands architecture keeps your pages interactive with **minimal
  client-side JavaScript**, trimming megabytes off the bundle and making
  Lighthouse scores happier out-of-the-box.

_🔒 Safer by Default_

- Deno's permission model ("–allow-net", "–allow-env", etc.) means accidental
  file system or network access is impossible unless you explicitly opt-in—great
  for CI and defence-in-depth.
- Auditable imports via **import maps** and cryptographically-pinned JSR
  packages remove the "left-pad" class of supply-chain surprises.

_⚡️ Modern Runtime, Modern Performance_

- Native Web APIs (fetch, web streams, URL, crypto, etc.)—no Node polyfills
  required.
- Built-in test runner, linter and formatter keep quality high without reaching
  for extra tooling.
- Edge-ready: the same code runs in Deno Deploy, Supabase Edge Functions, Vercel
  Edge, etc.

### Pros vs. the official `workos-node` SDK

**✅ Pros**

- Deno-native: no compatibility shims, resulting in a smaller, faster bundle.
- Stricter type safety – every response object is fully annotated, reducing
  runtime bugs and IDE guess-work.
- Seamless Fresh 2.x integration (session cookies, islands routing, async
  handlers) provided out-of-the-box.
- Built-in OpenTelemetry hooks for tracing and Prometheus-friendly metrics.
- Single dependency (Deno) keeps image sizes small and simplifies CI/CD
  pipelines.
- JSR distribution means instant, version-pinned imports—no `npm install`, no
  lockfiles.

**⚠️ Trade-offs / Cons**

- Smaller community and ecosystem compared to Node; some npm-only helpers may
  need a Deno port or polyfill.
- Upstream WorkOS features may arrive here _after_ the official SDK (PRs
  welcome!).
- The npm compatibility build strives for parity but cannot expose
  Deno-exclusive APIs such as permissions.
- If your runtime is strictly Node 14/16 LTS, the official SDK may still be the
  simpler drop-in.

> 💡 **Bottom line:** If you are already betting on Deno 2.x or Fresh 2.x—or
> want a permission-aware, type-safe WorkOS client that feels native to the
> modern Web Platform—this SDK will get you from idea to production in fewer
> lines of code and with stronger guarantees.

## Relationship to the Official SDK

This package is a fork of the
[workos-inc/workos-node](https://github.com/workos-inc/workos-node) repository,
adapted specifically for Deno and JSR compatibility. Upstream changes are
tracked for reference, and semantic versioning is applied independently for this
implementation.

## Documentation

Refer to the
[WorkOS API Reference](https://workos.com/docs/reference/client-libraries)
maintained by the WorkOS project for detailed API documentation. Thank you to
the WorkOS maintainers and contributors for their continued work.

## Requirements

- Deno version 2.0.0 or higher

## Installation

### Deno (Recommended)

This package is designed for Deno first. You can install it in one of two ways:

Direct import:

```ts
import { WorkOS } from "jsr:@ryantaylor/workos@^0.1.0";
```

Or add the following to your `deno.json` imports:

```json
{
  "imports": {
    "@ryantaylor/workos": "jsr:@ryantaylor/workos@^0.1.0"
  }
}
```

### npm Compatibility

While this project focuses on Deno as the primary platform, an npm distribution
is also maintained for compatibility with Node.js environments:

```bash
npm install @ryantaylor/workos
```

See the "npm Compatibility" section below for more details.

## JSR.io Package

This library is published to [JSR.io](https://jsr.io/@ryantaylor/workos), a
modern registry optimized for Deno and web projects.

## Configuration

For Deno applications, initialize the SDK as shown below:

```ts
import { WorkOS } from "@ryantaylor/workos";

const workos = new WorkOS(
  Deno.env.get("WORKOS_API_KEY") ?? "",
  { clientId: Deno.env.get("WORKOS_CLIENT_ID") },
);
```

### Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file at the project root with the following entries:

```bash
WORKOS_API_KEY=your_workos_api_key
WORKOS_CLIENT_ID=your_workos_client_id
SESSION_SECRET=a_strong_random_string_for_cookie_encryption
WORKOS_WEBHOOK_SECRET=your_workos_webhook_signing_secret
```

In production environments, it is recommended to use a secure secrets management
service instead of environment files.

## Getting Started

Launch the Fresh development server with live reload:

```bash
deno task dev
```

Changes will be reflected in real time.

## Import Map Validation

This project uses import maps to manage dependencies. To ensure all imports are
properly mapped, a validation tool is provided:

```bash
deno run -A scripts/check-import-map.ts
```

This script:

- Scans TypeScript/JavaScript files in key directories
- Identifies imports not covered by the import map
- Provides JSR-formatted suggestions for unmapped imports

To automatically fix unmapped imports, run:

```bash
deno run -A scripts/check-import-map.ts --fix
```

When adding new dependencies, always update your import map to ensure proper
resolution. The validation tool will help identify:

- Missing entries in your import map
- Imports that could be converted to JSR format
- Potential issues with dependency resolution

## Observability with OpenTelemetry

Built-in support for OpenTelemetry enables observability of SDK usage,
performance, and errors. Example configuration:

```ts
const workos = new WorkOS(
  Deno.env.get("WORKOS_API_KEY") ?? "",
  {
    clientId: Deno.env.get("WORKOS_CLIENT_ID"),
    telemetry: {
      enabled: true,
      endpoint: "http://localhost:4318",
      serviceName: "my-application",
      defaultAttributes: {
        environment: "production",
        "deployment.version": "1.2.3",
      },
      debug: false,
    },
  },
);
```

Telemetry data is exported in the OTLP format and can be collected by an
OpenTelemetry Collector, stored in Prometheus, and visualized in Grafana.

Key metrics and traces include:

- API request latency and error rates
- Authentication attempt success/failure rates
- Directory sync operation metrics
- FGA authorization checks and performance

Recommended for production deployments:

- Setting up alerts for abnormal error rates or latency
- Monitoring authentication failures as a security measure
- Tracking API usage to ensure you stay within rate limits

## Deployment

- Secure environment variables via a vault or secrets management service
- Enforce CORS and security headers for application routes
- Monitor telemetry and configure alerts for abnormal patterns
- Plan for scalability and handle API rate limits appropriately

## SDK Modules

### Fine-Grained Authorization (FGA)

The FGA module provides a flexible, scalable authorization system that lets you
model complex access control scenarios.

- Create and manage resources
- Establish relationships with warrants
- Perform authorization checks
- Query authorization relationships
- Batch operations for resources and warrants

```ts
// Initialize the FGA module
const workos = new WorkOS(Deno.env.get("WORKOS_API_KEY") ?? "");
const fga = workos.fga;

// Create a resource
const resource = await fga.createResource({
  resourceType: "document",
  resourceId: "doc-123",
  meta: { name: "Project Plan" },
});

// Create a relationship (warrant)
await fga.writeWarrant({
  subjectType: "user",
  subjectId: "user-456",
  relation: "editor",
  resourceType: "document",
  resourceId: "doc-123",
});

// Perform an authorization check
const checkResult = await fga.check({
  subjectType: "user",
  subjectId: "user-456",
  relation: "editor",
  resourceType: "document",
  resourceId: "doc-123",
});

console.log("Is authorized:", checkResult.result);
```

### User Management

The User Management module provides session handling with enhanced type safety:

- Type-safe user session authentication
- Improved session management
- Clean session provider integration with Fresh

```ts
// Initialize User Management with session provider
const sessionProvider = new FreshSessionProvider();
const userManagement = workos.userManagement(sessionProvider);

// Authenticate a user and get properly typed session
const sessionAuth = await userManagement.authenticateWithCode({
  clientId: Deno.env.get("WORKOS_CLIENT_ID") ?? "",
  code: "authorization_code",
  redirectUri: "https://your-app.com/callback",
});

// Type-safe access to user properties
console.log("User ID:", sessionAuth.user.id);
console.log("User Email:", sessionAuth.user.email);
```

### Directory Sync

The Directory Sync module manages directory connections with type-safe
interfaces:

- Retrieve directories with proper typing
- List users and groups with improved serialization
- Paginated results with consistent patterns

```ts
// Initialize Directory Sync
const directorySync = workos.directorySync;

// Get a directory with type-safe response
const directory = await directorySync.getDirectory("directory_123");

// List users with proper typing
const users = await directorySync.listUsers({
  directory: "directory_123",
});

// List groups with pagination
const groups = await directorySync.listGroups({
  directory: "directory_123",
  limit: 10,
});
```

## Usage Examples

A complete Fresh 2.x integration example for User Management:

```ts
// utils/workos.ts
import { WorkOS } from "@ryantaylor/workos";
import { FreshSessionProvider } from "@ryantaylor/workos/common/iron-session/fresh-session-provider";

export function initWorkOS() {
  const workos = new WorkOS(
    Deno.env.get("WORKOS_API_KEY") ?? "",
    { clientId: Deno.env.get("WORKOS_CLIENT_ID") },
  );

  // Initialize session provider for user management
  const sessionProvider = new FreshSessionProvider({
    cookieName: "app_session",
    password: Deno.env.get("SESSION_SECRET") ?? "",
    cookieOptions: {
      httpOnly: true,
      secure: true,
      sameSite: "lax",
    },
  });

  // Get typed user management client
  const userManagement = workos.userManagement(sessionProvider);

  // Get FGA client
  const fga = workos.fga;

  // Get Directory Sync client
  const directorySync = workos.directorySync;

  return { workos, userManagement, fga, directorySync, sessionProvider };
}
```

## Benefits of Deno-Native Implementation

The Deno-native approach taken in this project provides several key advantages:

- **Enhanced Type Safety**: Proper typing throughout the codebase prevents
  runtime errors
- **No Compatibility Layers**: Direct use of Deno APIs without Node.js
  compatibility shims
- **Better Performance**: Native implementations of key functionality
- **Fresh Framework Integration**: Seamless integration with Fresh 2.x
- **Simplified Development**: Clean, consistent API patterns across all modules

## SDK Versioning

This SDK follows Semantic Versioning ([SemVer](https://semver.org/)): versions
are formatted as X.Y.Z, where breaking changes are introduced only in major
version increments.

## JSR.io Publication Workflow

This package is published to JSR.io, the modern registry for JavaScript and
TypeScript packages. To publish new versions:

1. Ensure all tests pass with `deno task test`
2. Update version numbers in relevant files
3. Create a new git tag for the version
4. Run `jsr publish` to publish to JSR.io

## npm Compatibility

This package offers an npm distribution to support Node.js environments, but
with some limitations:

1. The npm distribution is generated from the Deno source code
2. It may not include all Deno-specific features
3. It's maintained primarily to support migration paths, not as a first-class
   Node.js SDK

For detailed information on building and publishing the npm distribution, see
the [npm/README.md](npm/README.md) file.

## Beta Releases

Beta features are available via Beta release tags. Pinning to a specific version
is advised to avoid unexpected breaking changes.

## Development Workflow with Deno

### Setting Up Development Environment

1. Install Deno from [the official website](https://deno.land)
2. Clone this repository
3. Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill in your WorkOS API keys
4. Run `deno task dev` to start the development server

### Testing with Deno

The test suite uses Deno's built-in testing capabilities:

```bash
# Run all tests
deno task test

# Run tests in watch mode during development
deno task test:watch

# Run tests with coverage
deno task test:coverage
```

For more details about our testing approach, see
[docs/test-coverage.md](docs/test-coverage.md).

### Code Quality Tools

This project leverages Deno's built-in tools for code quality:

```bash
# Format code
deno fmt

# Check types
deno check
```

## Testing Approach

- All tests use Deno's native testing framework
- HTTP requests are mocked using utilities in `tests_deno/utils/`
- Coverage is tracked using Deno's built-in coverage tools
- HTML coverage reports can be generated with `deno task coverage:html`

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome. Please review the guidelines in
[CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for commit conventions and pull request
procedures.

## More Information

- [WorkOS Documentation](https://workos.com/docs)
- [Version Policy](VERSION.md)
- [Changelog](CHANGELOG.md)

Hoser made in fabrique au 🇨🇦

## Author

Maintained by **Ryan Taylor** ([@ryantaylor](https://twitter.com/ryantaylor)).

Commit message:

refactor: standardize test file naming conventions to *.test.ts
- Renamed .spec.ts test files to .test.ts for Deno 2.x compatibility
- Fixed import formats for testing libraries:
  - BDD imports now use jsr:@std/testing@^1/bdd
  - Mock imports now use jsr:@std/testing@^1/mock
- Added utility scripts for:
  - Standardizing test filename patterns
  - Fixing testing library imports
  - Fixing Node.js module imports with node: prefix
- All tests still run properly with the new naming convention

This standardization ensures consistent test file discovery by Deno's native test runner.

README.md, after:

# @ryantaylor/workos: Deno/JSR Port of the WorkOS API

[![JSR Version](https://jsr.io/badges/@ryantaylor/workos)](https://jsr.io/@ryantaylor/workos)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/ryan-taylor/workos-jsr/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ryan-taylor/workos-jsr/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-80%25-brightgreen)](coverage_html/index.html)

## Overview

This library provides seamless integration with the WorkOS API for applications
written in Deno and JavaScript/TypeScript. This project benefits from the
official WorkOS SDK; sincere appreciation is extended to the WorkOS project team
and all contributors for their efforts.

> **Disclaimer:** This is a community-driven port maintained by a single
> developer and is **not** an official WorkOS product.

The SDK is fully Deno-native, designed to work with Deno 2.x and Fresh 2.x with
enhanced type safety and improved performance. Key features include:

- **Fine-Grained Authorization (FGA)**: A complete implementation of WorkOS's
  authorization system
- **Type-Safe User Management**: Enhanced session handling with proper typing
- **Directory Sync**: Improved serialization and type-safe directory management
- **Pure Deno Implementation**: No compatibility layers, built for Deno from the
  ground up

## Why Deno 2.x + Fresh 2.x?

The goal of this fork is **not** to mirror the existing Node SDK one-for-one,
but rather to show what the WorkOS developer experience can feel like when it is
built **for** the Deno runtime and the Fresh framework from day one.

_🛠️ Ship Faster_

- Zero-config: run `deno task dev` and start coding—no bundlers, transpliers, or
  package managers to configure.
- First-class TypeScript and JSX/TSX support baked into the runtime eliminates
  **"works-on-my-machine"** classpath issues and reduces set-up time.
- Fresh's islands architecture keeps your pages interactive with **minimal
  client-side JavaScript**, trimming megabytes off the bundle and making
  Lighthouse scores happier out-of-the-box.

_🔒 Safer by Default_

- Deno's permission model ("–allow-net", "–allow-env", etc.) means accidental
  file system or network access is impossible unless you explicitly opt-in—great
  for CI and defence-in-depth.
- Auditable imports via **import maps** and cryptographically-pinned JSR
  packages remove the "left-pad" class of supply-chain surprises.

_⚡️ Modern Runtime, Modern Performance_

- Native Web APIs (fetch, web streams, URL, crypto, etc.)—no Node polyfills
  required.
- Built-in test runner, linter and formatter keep quality high without reaching
  for extra tooling.
- Edge-ready: the same code runs in Deno Deploy, Supabase Edge Functions, Vercel
  Edge, etc.

### Pros vs. the official `workos-node` SDK

**✅ Pros**

- Deno-native: no compatibility shims, resulting in a smaller, faster bundle.
- Stricter type safety – every response object is fully annotated, reducing
  runtime bugs and IDE guess-work.
- Seamless Fresh 2.x integration (session cookies, islands routing, async
  handlers) provided out-of-the-box.
- Built-in OpenTelemetry hooks for tracing and Prometheus-friendly metrics.
- Single dependency (Deno) keeps image sizes small and simplifies CI/CD
  pipelines.
- JSR distribution means instant, version-pinned imports—no `npm install`, no
  lockfiles.

**⚠️ Trade-offs / Cons**

- Smaller community and ecosystem compared to Node; some npm-only helpers may
  need a Deno port or polyfill.
- Upstream WorkOS features may arrive here _after_ the official SDK (PRs
  welcome!).
- This is now a pure Deno implementation with no Node.js compatibility layer -
  all Node.js components have been completely removed.
- If your runtime is Node.js, you should use the official WorkOS Node.js SDK as
  this package no longer provides npm distribution.

> 💡 **Bottom line:** If you are already betting on Deno 2.x or Fresh 2.x—or
> want a permission-aware, type-safe WorkOS client that feels native to the
> modern Web Platform—this SDK will get you from idea to production in fewer
> lines of code and with stronger guarantees.

## Relationship to the Official SDK

This package is a fork of the
[workos-inc/workos-node](https://github.com/workos-inc/workos-node) repository,
adapted specifically for Deno and JSR compatibility. Upstream changes are
tracked for reference, and semantic versioning is applied independently for this
implementation.

## Documentation

Refer to the
[WorkOS API Reference](https://workos.com/docs/reference/client-libraries)
maintained by the WorkOS project for detailed API documentation. Thank you to
the WorkOS maintainers and contributors for their continued work.

## Requirements

- Deno version 2.0.0 or higher

## Installation

### Deno (Recommended)

This package is designed for Deno first. You can install it in one of two ways:

Direct import:

```ts
import { WorkOS } from "jsr:@ryantaylor/workos@^0.1.0";
```

Or add the following to your `deno.json` imports:

```json
{
  "imports": {
    "@ryantaylor/workos": "jsr:@ryantaylor/workos@^0.1.0"
  }
}
```

### Pure Deno Implementation

This is now a pure Deno project without Node.js support. The project has fully
removed all Node.js components (package.json, package-lock.json, node_modules)
and only supports Deno as the runtime environment. All CI workflows have been
updated to use only Deno. This decision allows for optimizations specific to the
Deno platform and eliminates the overhead of maintaining compatibility layers.

## JSR.io Package

This library is published exclusively to
[JSR.io](https://jsr.io/@ryantaylor/workos), a modern registry optimized for
Deno and web projects. There is no npm distribution of this package.

## Configuration

For Deno applications, initialize the SDK as shown below:

```ts
import { WorkOS } from "@ryantaylor/workos";

const workos = new WorkOS(
  Deno.env.get("WORKOS_API_KEY") ?? "",
  { clientId: Deno.env.get("WORKOS_CLIENT_ID") },
);
```

### Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file at the project root with the following entries:

```bash
WORKOS_API_KEY=your_workos_api_key
WORKOS_CLIENT_ID=your_workos_client_id
SESSION_SECRET=a_strong_random_string_for_cookie_encryption
WORKOS_WEBHOOK_SECRET=your_workos_webhook_signing_secret
```

In production environments, it is recommended to use a secure secrets management
service instead of environment files.

## Getting Started

Launch the Fresh development server with live reload:

```bash
deno task dev
```

Changes will be reflected in real time.

## Import Map Validation

This project uses import maps to manage dependencies. To ensure all imports are
properly mapped, a validation tool is provided:

```bash
deno run -A scripts/check-import-map.ts
```

This script:

- Scans TypeScript/JavaScript files in key directories
- Identifies imports not covered by the import map
- Provides JSR-formatted suggestions for unmapped imports

To automatically fix unmapped imports, run:

```bash
deno run -A scripts/check-import-map.ts --fix
```

When adding new dependencies, always update your import map to ensure proper
resolution. The validation tool will help identify:

- Missing entries in your import map
- Imports that could be converted to JSR format
- Potential issues with dependency resolution

## Observability with OpenTelemetry

Built-in support for OpenTelemetry enables observability of SDK usage,
performance, and errors. Example configuration:

```ts
const workos = new WorkOS(
  Deno.env.get("WORKOS_API_KEY") ?? "",
  {
    clientId: Deno.env.get("WORKOS_CLIENT_ID"),
    telemetry: {
      enabled: true,
      endpoint: "http://localhost:4318",
      serviceName: "my-application",
      defaultAttributes: {
        environment: "production",
        "deployment.version": "1.2.3",
      },
      debug: false,
    },
  },
);
```

Telemetry data is exported in the OTLP format and can be collected by an
OpenTelemetry Collector, stored in Prometheus, and visualized in Grafana.

Key metrics and traces include:

- API request latency and error rates
- Authentication attempt success/failure rates
- Directory sync operation metrics
- FGA authorization checks and performance

Recommended for production deployments:

- Setting up alerts for abnormal error rates or latency
- Monitoring authentication failures as a security measure
- Tracking API usage to ensure you stay within rate limits

## Deployment

- Secure environment variables via a vault or secrets management service
- Enforce CORS and security headers for application routes
- Monitor telemetry and configure alerts for abnormal patterns
- Plan for scalability and handle API rate limits appropriately

## SDK Modules

### Fine-Grained Authorization (FGA)

The FGA module provides a flexible, scalable authorization system that lets you
model complex access control scenarios.

- Create and manage resources
- Establish relationships with warrants
- Perform authorization checks
- Query authorization relationships
- Batch operations for resources and warrants

```ts
// Initialize the FGA module
const workos = new WorkOS(Deno.env.get("WORKOS_API_KEY") ?? "");
const fga = workos.fga;

// Create a resource
const resource = await fga.createResource({
  resourceType: "document",
  resourceId: "doc-123",
  meta: { name: "Project Plan" },
});

// Create a relationship (warrant)
await fga.writeWarrant({
  subjectType: "user",
  subjectId: "user-456",
  relation: "editor",
  resourceType: "document",
  resourceId: "doc-123",
});

// Perform an authorization check
const checkResult = await fga.check({
  subjectType: "user",
  subjectId: "user-456",
  relation: "editor",
  resourceType: "document",
  resourceId: "doc-123",
});

console.log("Is authorized:", checkResult.result);
```

### User Management

The User Management module provides session handling with enhanced type safety:

- Type-safe user session authentication
- Improved session management
- Clean session provider integration with Fresh

```ts
// Initialize User Management with session provider
const sessionProvider = new FreshSessionProvider();
const userManagement = workos.userManagement(sessionProvider);

// Authenticate a user and get properly typed session
const sessionAuth = await userManagement.authenticateWithCode({
  clientId: Deno.env.get("WORKOS_CLIENT_ID") ?? "",
  code: "authorization_code",
  redirectUri: "https://your-app.com/callback",
});

// Type-safe access to user properties
console.log("User ID:", sessionAuth.user.id);
console.log("User Email:", sessionAuth.user.email);
```

### Directory Sync

The Directory Sync module manages directory connections with type-safe
interfaces:

- Retrieve directories with proper typing
- List users and groups with improved serialization
- Paginated results with consistent patterns

```ts
// Initialize Directory Sync
const directorySync = workos.directorySync;

// Get a directory with type-safe response
const directory = await directorySync.getDirectory("directory_123");

// List users with proper typing
const users = await directorySync.listUsers({
  directory: "directory_123",
});

// List groups with pagination
const groups = await directorySync.listGroups({
  directory: "directory_123",
  limit: 10,
});
```

## Usage Examples

A complete Fresh 2.x integration example for User Management:

```ts
// utils/workos.ts
import { WorkOS } from "@ryantaylor/workos";
import { FreshSessionProvider } from "@ryantaylor/workos/common/iron-session/fresh-session-provider";

export function initWorkOS() {
  const workos = new WorkOS(
    Deno.env.get("WORKOS_API_KEY") ?? "",
    { clientId: Deno.env.get("WORKOS_CLIENT_ID") },
  );

  // Initialize session provider for user management
  const sessionProvider = new FreshSessionProvider({
    cookieName: "app_session",
    password: Deno.env.get("SESSION_SECRET") ?? "",
    cookieOptions: {
      httpOnly: true,
      secure: true,
      sameSite: "lax",
    },
  });

  // Get typed user management client
  const userManagement = workos.userManagement(sessionProvider);

  // Get FGA client
  const fga = workos.fga;

  // Get Directory Sync client
  const directorySync = workos.directorySync;

  return { workos, userManagement, fga, directorySync, sessionProvider };
}
```

## Benefits of Deno-Native Implementation

The Deno-native approach taken in this project provides several key advantages:

- **Enhanced Type Safety**: Proper typing throughout the codebase prevents
  runtime errors
- **No Compatibility Layers**: Direct use of Deno APIs without Node.js
  compatibility shims
- **Better Performance**: Native implementations of key functionality
- **Fresh Framework Integration**: Seamless integration with Fresh 2.x
- **Simplified Development**: Clean, consistent API patterns across all modules

## SDK Versioning

This SDK follows Semantic Versioning ([SemVer](https://semver.org/)): versions
are formatted as X.Y.Z, where breaking changes are introduced only in major
version increments.

## JSR.io Publication Workflow

This package is published to JSR.io, the modern registry for JavaScript and
TypeScript packages. To publish new versions:

1. Ensure all tests pass with `deno task test`
2. Update version numbers in relevant files
3. Create a new git tag for the version
4. Run `jsr publish` to publish to JSR.io

## Migration from Node.js

This package has been fully migrated from Node.js to Deno. All Node.js
components have been removed, including package.json, package-lock.json, and
node_modules. The CI workflows have also been updated to use only Deno.

If you're migrating from a Node.js application, you'll need to switch to Deno to
use this SDK. There is no longer a Node.js compatibility layer or npm
distribution maintained for this project. Users of the previous Node.js version
should use the official WorkOS Node.js SDK instead.

## Beta Releases

Beta features are available via Beta release tags. Pinning to a specific version
is advised to avoid unexpected breaking changes.

## Development Workflow with Deno

### Setting Up Development Environment

1. Install Deno from [the official website](https://deno.land)
2. Clone this repository
3. Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill in your WorkOS API keys
4. Run `deno task dev` to start the development server

### Testing with Deno

The test suite uses Deno's built-in testing capabilities:

```bash
# Run all tests
deno task test

# Run tests in watch mode during development
deno task test:watch

# Run tests with coverage
deno task test:coverage
```

For more details about our testing approach, see
[docs/test-coverage.md](docs/test-coverage.md).

### Code Quality Tools

This project leverages Deno's built-in tools for code quality:

```bash
# Format code
deno fmt

# Check types
deno check
```

## Testing Approach

- All tests use Deno's native testing framework
- HTTP requests are mocked using utilities in `tests_deno/utils/`
- Coverage is tracked using Deno's built-in coverage tools
- HTML coverage reports can be generated with `deno task coverage:html`

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome. Please review the guidelines in
[CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for commit conventions and pull request
procedures.

## More Information

- [WorkOS Documentation](https://workos.com/docs)
- [Version Policy](VERSION.md)
- [Changelog](CHANGELOG.md)

Hoser made in fabrique au 🇨🇦

## Author

Maintained by **Ryan Taylor** ([@ryantaylor](https://twitter.com/ryantaylor)).
